To help you move from Mule 3 to Mule 4, we built this index to help you
find the Mule 4 equivalent of the most common Mule 3 use cases.

IMPORTANT: Keep in mind that this index is only intended to act as a
quick entry to the most common migration scenarios. It doesn’t contain
the entire migration guide. For the full set of migration articles,
please visit our Mule Mule 4 for Mule 3 Users page.

-   Configuration Properties: There’s a new way of handling
    configuration properties in Mule 4

-   Using Secure Properties: Secure placeholders are now a Runtime
    feature and no longer part of the Security Module

-   Using the HTTP Connector: The new HTTP connector has some
    differences with Mule 3, especially when it comes to handling
    multipart and form requests.

-   From MEL to DataWeave: DataWeave 2.0 is now the expression language.
    Here’s how to adapt your MEL expressions to DataWeave.

-   From DataWeave 1.0 to DataWeave 2.0: A new version of DataWeave is
    available in Mule 4

-   Where are the explicit transformers?: Transformers like
    <object-to-string /> or <object-to-json> are no longer necessary.
    Mule handles this automatically under the covers

-   Define a custom Object Store: Custom Object Stores are now defined
    through the new connector

-   Use watermarks: Watermarks have been simplified. You can also do it
    manually now allowing for more complex use cases.

-   Accessing the Mule Message: The Mule Message has a new structure and
    it’s accessed differently. Here’s a quick overview.

-   Using Java: Interoperability with Java is now done through the Java
    module. Optionally you can also try the Scripting module or the Mule
    SDK

-   Using Spring: Instead of defining Spring beans directly in your
    application, you can now use the Spring Module.

-   Using reconnection strategies: There are some small but important
    differences around reconnection in Mule 4.

-   Classloading isolation: Classloading isolation changes the way
    resources and classes are shared. Read this article to learn more.

-   Core Components Migration: A comprehensive list of the changes that
    were made to the core language elements

-   Using the new connectors: A comprehensive list of the changes that
    were made to the main connectors.

-   Using the Security Module (AES): Anypoint Enterprise Security module
    was split into different modules explained here.

-   Migrating Gateways: This section covers the migration of API Gateway
    related features.

-   Migrating ApiKit apps: Covers the necessary steps to successfully
    migrate APIkit-based applications.

-   Migrating custom components: You can use the Mule SDK to create your
    own reusable components

-   Migrating DevKit based components: There’s a DevKit Migration Tool
    that helps to migrate DevKit projects for Mule 3 into Mule SDK ones.

-   Transport service overrides: Covers how to migrate from generic
    transports.

-   mule-high-availability-ha-clusters.xml: At a container level, change
    the property from mule.clusterPartitioningMode=OPTIMIZE_PERFORMANCE
    to mule.cluster.storeprofile=performance. At an individual
    application level, you can configure the store profile for a
    specific Mule application.
